Kirk: SPACE:
THE FINAL FRONTIER.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO BOLDLY GO
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5371.3.
A HUGE COSMIC CLOUD
HAS BEEN REPORTED
MOVING INTO THE OUTER FRINGE
OF OUR GALAXY.
NOTHING LIKE IT
HAS EVER BEEN SEEN BEFORE.
STARFLEET COMMAND
HAS SENT THE ENTERPRISE
TO INVESTIGATE
AS WE'RE THE ONLY VESSEL
IN THE VICINITY
OF THE PHENOMENON.
OUR PRESENT POSITION
IS IN THE PALLAS 14 SYSTEM,
WHICH CONTAINS MANTILLES,
THE MOST REMOTE
INHABITED PLANET
IN THE ENTIRE FEDERATION.
WE WILL INTERCEPT THE CLOUD
IN THE VICINITY OF ALONDRA,
THE OUTERMOST PLANET, SIR.
CAPTAIN, WE ARE NOW APPROACHING
SENSOR RANGE OF THE CLOUD.
READINGS?
IT SEEMS TO BE
OF IRREGULAR SHAPE,
SOME 800,000 KILOMETERS ACROSS
AND ABOUT HALF THAT IN DEPTH.
IT'S IMMENSE.
TWICE THE DIAMETERS OF SATURN,
JUPITER AND NEPTUNE TOGETHER!
PUT UP OUR PRESENT POSITION,
LIEUTENANT AREX.
-YES, CAPTAIN.
-Kirk: READING, SPOCK?
Spock:
THIS IS VERY CURIOUS, CAPTAIN.
IT COMPUTES AS A
STRANGE COMBINATION
OF MATTER AND ENERGY.
CAPTAIN, LOOK.
CAPTAIN, ALONDRA HAS DISAPPEARED
FROM NAVIGATION SCAN.
THE CLOUD COULD HAVE COME
BETWEEN US AND THE PLANET.
NO, LIEUTENANT, THE CLOUD
HAS ENGULFED ALONDRA.
CAPTAIN, THE PLANET
SEEMS TO BE BREAKING UP.
ITS MASS IS DEFINITELY
GROWING SMALLER.
SPOCK, IS IT POSSIBLE
THE CLOUD CONSUMES PLANETS?
IT SEEMS A
LOGICAL ASSUMPTION, CAPTAIN.
SIR, THE CLOUD
IS CHANGING COURSE.
THAT'S IMPOSSIBLE.
THE COURSE CHANGE
IS VERIFIED, SIR.
THE CLOUD IS NOW MOVING
DIRECTLY TOWARD
THE INHABITED PLANET.
BUT IF IT CONTINUES
ON THAT COURSE...
MANTILLES WILL DIE.
MR. SULU,
INCREASE SPEED
TO WARP 8.
-PUSH IT TO THE LIMIT.
-Sulu: YES, SIR.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
SUPPLEMENTAL.
AT WARP 8,
WE WILL INTERCEPT THE CLOUD
BEFORE IT REACHES THE
INHABITED PLANET MANTILLES.
BUT WE ARE UNCERTAIN
WHAT WE CAN DO TO STOP
A MATTER-ENERGY CLOUD
WHICH MEASURES
THOUSANDS OF TIMES
MORE THAN OUR VESSEL.
JIM, IF WE CAN'T STOP IT,
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE WILL DIE.
Spock: PERHAPS MORE, DOCTOR.
IF PLANET ANNIHILATION IS
PART OF THIS THING'S NATURE,
IT MIGHT SEEK THEM OUT
AS INSTINCTIVELY AS
AN AMEBA SEEKS OUT FOOD.
IT MAY NOT CONSUME
ONLY PLANETS,
BUT ALSO STARS.
WE DO NOT KNOW YET
WHETHER IT HAS ANY
SELECTIVE ABILITY,
BUT IT COULD BE A THREAT
TO EVERY PLANET IN OUR GALAXY.
BONES, I NEED AN EXPERT
PSYCHOLOGICAL OPINION.
DO WE DARE TELL THE PEOPLE
ON MANTILLES, TRY TO SAVE
A FEW WHO COULD GET AWAY?
-HOW MUCH TIME DO THEY HAVE?
-FOUR HOURS, TEN MINUTES, SIR.
IT'S CERTAIN THERE'D BE
PLANETWIDE PANIC.
BLIND PANIC.
ON THE OTHER HAND,
NOTIFYING THEM
MAY STILL SAVE
SOME SMALL FRACTION
OF THE POPULATION, CAPTAIN.
WHO'S THE GOVERNOR
OF MANTILLES, JIM?
BOB WESLEY.
HE LEFT STARFLEET
FOR THE GOVERNORSHIP.
-HE'S NO HYSTERIC.
-THEN TELL HIM.
COMING UP ON THE CLOUD, SIR.
ETA FIVE MINUTES, TEN SECONDS.
THANKS, BONES.
LIEUTENANT UHURA,
SEND A PRIORITY ONE CALL
TO GOVERNOR WESLEY
ON MANTILLES.
AYE, AYE, SIR.
CAPTAIN, I'M GETTING
UNUSUAL READINGS ON THE
CHEMICAL IDENTITY SENSORS.
WHAT KIND?
ELEMENTS UNKNOWN IN
OUR PERIODIC TABLES, CAPTAIN.
I'M OF THE OPINION
THIS CLOUD HAS COME
FROM OUTSIDE OUR GALAXY.
CAPTAIN.
-EVASIVE ACTION.
-AYE, SIR.
-REVERSE FULL POWER.
-Sulu: FULL REVERSE, SIR.
IT'S STILL GOT US.
THE STREAMERS ARE
A COMBINATION OF KOINOENERGY,
ALMOST AN AMBIPLASMA,
WITH AN UNUSUALLY POWERFUL
ATTRACTION FORCE.
PREPARE TO FIRE ALL PHASERS
INTO CLOUD MASS.
LOCKED ON. PHASERS READY, SIR.
-FIRE.
-FIRING.
NO EFFECT, CAPTAIN.
THE CLOUD APPEARED TO ABSORB
THE PHASER ENERGY, CAPTAIN.
[THUNDEROUS RUMBLING]
McCoy: WE'RE FLOATING
INSIDE THE CLOUD.
ALL DECKS REPORT
CONSIDERABLE SHAKING UP,
BUT NO DAMAGE, SIR.
CAPTAIN, OBJECTS
APPROACHING ON THE BOW.
[BEEPING]
DEFLECTOR SHIELDS ON.
SHIELDS UP AND OPERATING, SIR.
Sulu: MORE OBJECTS
APPROACHING AFT, SIR.
ANALYSIS, SPOCK?
THE OBJECTS ARE SOME FORM
OF HIGHLY CHARGED
GASEOUS ANTIMATTER.
Scotty:
ENGINEERING TO CAPTAIN KIRK.
KIRK HERE.
CAPTAIN, THE POWER DRAIN
ON THE SHIELDS
IS TOO HEAVY TO HOLD
-FOR ANY LENGTH OF TIME.
-Kirk: I KNOW, SCOTTY.
SCOTTY, PREPARE THE SHIELDS
FOR AN ANTIMATTER CHARGE.
Scotty:
AYE, SIR. ENGINEERING OUT.
-ANTIMATTER CHARGE READY, SIR.
-FIRE.
[SHRILL BEEPING]
-DOUBLE THE CHARGE.
-READY, SIR.
Kirk: FIRE.
WELL, SPOCK,
ANY CONCLUSIONS?
ONLY THE BEGINNING
OF A THEORY, CAPTAIN.
IT IS POSSIBLE THIS CLOUD
IN WHICH WE ARE ENTRAPPED
IS A LIVING THING.
THE CLOUD IS ALIVE.
YES, CAPTAIN,
ITS COMPONENTS APPEAR SIMILAR
TO THOSE FOUND
IN LIVING ORGANISMS.
-BONES, ANY OPINION?
-THERE'S SOME RESEMBLANCE.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH
WE CAN DEPEND ON IT.
BUT I'LL TELL YOU
ONE THING.
WE HAVE TO GET OUT
OF THIS AREA.
THOSE MISTS OUT THERE
ARE ACTING SOMETHING LIKE
A MACROMORPHASE ENZYME.
IF THE SHIELDS DON'T STAY UP,
THE HULL WILL BE CORRODED
AND WE'LL ALL BE
BROKEN DOWN INTO
NICE DIGESTIBLE PARTICLES.
I AM INCLINED TO AGREE
WITH THE DOCTOR, CAPTAIN.
THE MASS OF THE PLANET ALONDRA
HAS BEEN STEADILY
GROWING SMALLER
SINCE WE'VE BEEN IN HERE.
CAPTAIN, I HAVE A SUBSPACE
RADIO MESSAGE COMING IN
FROM GOVERNOR WESLEY
OF MANTILLES.
-TRANSFER IT TO MY QUARTERS.
-YES, SIR.
Kirk: MR. SULU, USE YOUR
SCANNERS TO ASSEMBLE A DIAGRAM
OF THE CLOUD'S COMPOSITION
AND FEED IT TO THE
LIBRARY COMPUTER.
THREE AND A HALF HOURS, JIM.
THAT'S NOT ENOUGH.
EVEN IF I HAD THE SHIPS
AVAILABLE TO TOTALLY
EVACUATE THE PLANET.
YOU HAVE TIME
TO SAVE SOME PEOPLE, BOB.
THAT WON'T BE
LONG ENOUGH EITHER,
BUT IT'LL HAVE TO DO.
HOW ARE YOU GOING TO CHOOSE?
THERE IS NO CHOICE, JIM.
WE'LL SAVE THE CHILDREN.
IN THREE HOURS AND 20 MINUTES
THE CLOUD WILL REACH
MANTILLES.
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE WILL DIE.
I NEED YOUR HELP, GENTLEMEN.
YOUR ANALYSES?
IF WE ASSUME THE CLOUD
IS A LIVING BEING,
WE MUST ALSO ASSUME
IT NEEDS SOME KIND OF
FOOD TO SUSTAIN ITSELF.
AGREED.
JUDGING FROM THE
DISAPPEARANCE OF ALONDRA,
THE CLOUD LIVES ON THE ENERGY
IT CONVERTS FROM THE PLANETS
IT CONSUMES.
EXACTLY.
IT IS LIKE A HUGE BULL
GRAZING HERE AND THERE
IN THE PASTURE
OF THE UNIVERSE.
WHAT ABOUT THOSE BLOBS,
BONES?
I THINK THEY PERFORM
THE SAME FUNCTION AS TEETH.
THEY BREAK UP
THE LARGER CHUNKS
OF MATTER FOR DIGESTION.
LIEUTENANT, LET'S SEE
WHAT THE SCANNERS
HAVE COME UP WITH
ON THE CLOUD'S
COMPOSITION.
IT SEEMS TO HAVE
SOME SORT OF ANATOMY.
AREX, WHERE ARE WE
ON THAT CHART?
POSTING ENTERPRISE POSITION,
SIR.
Kirk: THE OPENING
WHERE WE WERE DRAWN IN
SEEMS TO HAVE CLOSED.
BUT THERE'S ANOTHER OPENING
UP THERE ON TOP.
IF THIS THING DOES HAVE
SOME KIND OF DIGESTIVE SYSTEM,
WE DON'T STAND
MUCH OF A CHANCE
OF MAKING IT THAT FAR.
THREE HOURS, FIVE MINUTES
UNTIL THE CLOUD REACHES
MANTILLES, SIR.
THANK YOU, MR. AREX.
SINCE WE APPEAR TO HAVE
ONLY ONE WAY OUT,
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE IT.
MR. SULU, TAKE US TO THAT
CENTRAL CORE AREA.
AYE, AYE, SIR.
AND IF THIS THING
DOES HAVE A STOMACH,
WE JUST MIGHT BE ABLE
TO GIVE IT ENOUGH INDIGESTION
TO MAKE IT TURN AWAY
FROM MANTILLES.
Sulu:
WE'VE REACHED THE ENTRANCE
TO THE CENTRAL CORE, CAPTAIN.
WHAT DO WE DO NOW? KNOCK?
[CRASHING]
NO NEED, BONES.
HERE WE GO.
WHAT ARE THOSE THINGS?
I THINK WE'RE IN
WHAT CORRESPONDS
TO THE SMALL INTESTINE.
THOSE THINGS
GROWING OUT OF THE WALL
WOULD BE SIMILAR TO VILLI.
-VILLI?
-THE HUMAN SMALL INTESTINE
IS LINED WITH MILLIONS
OF THEM, TO ABSORB
NUTRIENTS INTO THE BODY.
CAPTAIN, THOSE VILLI
ARE ANTIMATTER.
IF THE ENTERPRISE
TOUCHES ONE OF THEM...
WE'LL EXPLODE.
MR. SULU, KEEP THE DEFLECTORS UP
AT ALL COSTS.
-YES, SIR.
-INCREDIBLE.
THEY'RE DESTROYED ON CONTACT
WITH THE MATTER
THIS THING TAKES IN
AND THEN THEY
REGENERATE IMMEDIATELY.
-Scotty: SCOTT TO BRIDGE!
-YES, SCOTTY?
Scotty: KEEPING THE DEFLECTORS
THIS HIGH
IS PUTTING AN ENORMOUS STRAIN
ON THE ENGINES, CAPTAIN.
ESPECIALLY THE ANTIMATTER.
WHAT WITH THE MAXIMUM
POWER DEMANDS AND ALL,
THE RESERVE IS FALLING FAST.
-HOW MUCH TIME DO WE HAVE?
-21 MINUTES, SIR.
BUT IF THE INDICATOR GOES
BELOW TWO ANTI-KILOS,
THE ENGINES WON'T REGENERATE.
THANK YOU, MR. SCOTT.
MR. AREX,
TRY TO MAKE YOUR WAY THROUGH
TO THE OPENING
ON THE OTHER SIDE.
YES, SIR.
I CAN'T HOLD IT ON COURSE, SIR.
WE'RE USING ALL POWER.
INCREASE DEFLECTOR SCREENS
TO MAXIMUM.
SCREENS TO MAXIMUM, SIR.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
SUPPLEMENTAL.
THE ENTERPRISE HAS ONLY
15 MINUTES LEFT
BEFORE HER POWER IS DRAINED
AND WE ARE LEFT HELPLESS.
Scotty: IF WE DON'T STOP
THE POWER DRAIN RIGHT NOW,
THAT'LL BE THE END OF US.
AND IF WE DO STOP,
WE'LL BE DRAWN INTO
ONE OF THE VILLI
AND THE SHIP
WILL EXPLODE.
CAPTAIN, YOU SAID THAT
VILLI ARE ANTIMATTER.
IF WE COULD GET
A PIECE OF IT,
I COULD PUT IT IN THE
ANTIMATTER ENGINE AND
IT WOULD REGENERATE.
WE'D HAVE ENOUGH POWER
FOR THE ENGINES
AND THE SHIELDS
TO GO ON MAXIMUM AGAIN.
WE NEED BOTH THE MATTER
AND THE ANTIMATTER
ENGINES REGENERATED.
MATTER'S NO PROBLEM.
WE COULD BEAM ABOARD
SOME OF THE
PLANET CHUNKS OUT THERE.
AND WE CAN CUT A PIECE
OF THE ANTIMATTER VILLI
WITH THE TRACTOR BEAM
AND TRANSPORT IT ABOARD
LIKE THAT.
BRING IT ABOARD?
IF THE ANTIMATTER
TOUCHES THE INSIDE
OF THE SHIP OR ANY OF US,
WE'LL BE BLOWN TO BITS.
I CAN RIG A FORCE FIELD BOX
THAT'LL HOLD
THE PIECE OF VILLI
SUSPENDED IN THE CENTER.
THEN I CAN TAKE IT INTO
THE ANTIMATTER NACELLE,
PUT IT INTO THE
REGENERATING CHAMBER
AND RELEASE THE FORCE FIELD
BY REMOTE CONTROL.
Kirk: SCOTTY, WE'VE GOT
10 MINUTES LEFT.
THE FORCE FIELD IS HOLDING.
LET'S GO.
[BUZZING]
Scotty: WELL, THAT GIVES US
TWO MINUTES.
[BUZZING INTENSIFIES]
ALL RIGHT, GABLER,
OPEN IT.
CLOSE IT.
[RUMBLING]
[ALARMS BLARING]
SCOTTY, YOU'VE JUST GIVEN
THE ENTERPRISE AND MANTILLES
A CHANCE TO LIVE.
AH, THANK YOU, SIR.
SITUATION, MR. SPOCK?
THE CLOUD IS NOW ONLY
42 MINUTES, 14 SECONDS
FROM MANTILLES, CAPTAIN.
AND WE HAVE ASCERTAINED
AN IMPORTANT FACT.
THIS BEING
DOES HAVE A BRAIN.
INTELLIGENT?
Spock: IMPOSSIBLE TO SAY
AT THIS MOMENT, CAPTAIN.
IT HAS MADE ONLY ONE ACTION
WHICH MIGHT BE INTERPRETED
AS INTELLIGENT.
IT CHANGED COURSE
FROM ALONDRA TOWARD MANTILLES.
BUT THAT COULD HAVE BEEN
AN INVOLUNTARY RESPONSE
TO THE SENSING OF FOOD.
WHERE IS THE BRAIN LOCATED?
Spock: THAT IRREGULARLY SHAPED
OBJECT AT THE TOP OF THE CORE
EMANATES CONSIDERABLE
ELECTRICAL ACTIVITY.
IT'S PRETTY CERTAIN
TO BE THE BRAIN, JIM.
THE FUNCTIONING OF THE BRAIN
IS BASICALLY ELECTRIC.
IF WE CAN REACH IT BEFORE
THE CLOUD GETS TO MANTILLES,
WE MIGHT BE ABLE
TO SAVE THE PLANET.
WE'LL USE THE PHOTON TORPEDOES
TO DESTROY THE BRAIN.
CAPTAIN, THIS IS
A LIVING CREATURE.
STARFLEET REGULATIONS...
I KNOW THE REGULATIONS AGAINST
THE KILLING OF INTELLIGENT
LIFE FORMS, MR. SPOCK.
BUT WE DON'T KNOW
THIS LIFE FORM IS INTELLIGENT.
AND WE DO KNOW THE PEOPLE
ON MANTILLES ARE DOOMED
IF WE DON'T STOP IT.
IF I HAVE TO BE A JUDGE,
I DECIDE IN FAVOR
OF SAVING MANTILLES.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5372.0.
SPOCK AND UHURA
ARE USING OUR SENSORS
TO PREPARE A DETAILED CHART
SO WE MAY DETERMINE TARGETS
FOR OUR PHOTON TORPEDOES.
AM I DOING THE RIGHT THING,
BONES?
ONCE, I SAID,
"MAN ROSE ABOVE PRIMITIVENESS
"BY VOWING,
'I WILL NOT KILL TODAY.'"
BUT YOU CAN'T LET THIS THING
DESTROY OVER 80 MILLION LIVES,
EITHER.
CAPTAIN, I HAVE
COMPLETED THE ANALYSIS
OF THE TARGET AREA.
UNFORTUNATELY,
THE BRAIN IS SO VAST,
OUR ENTIRE OFFENSIVE ARMAMENT
WILL NOT ASSURE
ITS DESTRUCTION.
HOWEVER, THE BRAIN COULD BE
COMPLETELY DESTROYED
IF WE CONVERT THE
ENTIRE SHIP TO ENERGY,
AIMED AT THE BRAIN'S CORTEX,
AND EXPEND THE ENERGY
IN ONE MORTAL STRIKE.
THAT SOUNDS LIKE
YOU'RE TELLING US
TO BLOW UP THE SHIP.
I BELIEVE THAT IS
WHAT I JUST SAID, DOCTOR.
YOUR FIGURES ARE SPECIFIC AND
ABSOLUTELY CORRECT, OF COURSE?
YOU'RE SURE
IT WILL DO THE JOB?
YES, CAPTAIN. QUITE SURE.
KIRK TO ENGINEERING.
Scotty: ENGINEERING.
SCOTT HERE.
Kirk: MR. SCOTT, PREPARE
THE SELF-DESTRUCT MECHANISM
IN THE ENGINEERING CORE.
COMPUTER CONTROL
WILL BE ON THE BRIDGE
WHEN IT'S TIME TO TRIGGER IT.
AYE, SIR.
INCOMING MESSAGE, SIR.
IT'S GOVERNOR WESLEY
OF MANTILLES.
PUT IT ON THE VIEWSCREEN,
LIEUTENANT.
Uhura: YES, SIR.
GO AHEAD, GOVERNOR.
-JIM.
-Kirk: BOB.
IS THE EVACUATION PROCEEDING?
AS BEST IT CAN.
THERE WAS SOME HYSTERIA
AT THE BEGINNING,
BUT MOST AGREED
TO LET THE CHILDREN
BE TAKEN OFF FIRST.
BUT IT'S ONLY 5,000 CHILDREN
OUT OF 82 MILLION PEOPLE.
I KNOW.
WE CAN SEE
THE CLOUD APPROACHING, JIM.
31 MINUTES AND 4 SECONDS
TO MANTILLES, SIR.
BOB, WHERE'S KATIE?
HERE, WITH ME.
DON'T WORRY, BOB.
SHE'LL BE ALL RIGHT.
-GOODBYE.
-GOODBYE, JIM.
McCoy: WHO'S KATIE?
HIS DAUGHTER. SHE'S 11.
SPOCK, IS THERE ANY WAY
WE COULD ESTABLISH
WHETHER OR NOT IT IS
DEFINITELY INTELLIGENT?
PERHAPS A--A
VULCAN MIND TOUCH.
IT WOULD REQUIRE
PHYSICAL CONTACT, WHICH
IS IMPOSSIBLE, CAPTAIN.
BUT I MAY BE ABLE
TO REACH OUT WITH MY MIND.
IF WE FOCUS OUR SENSORS
ONTO THE CLOUD'S
SYNAPTIC ELECTRICAL IMPULSES,
THE INPUT COULD BE ROUTED
TO THE SHIP'S COMPUTER
FOR ANALYSIS INTO THOUGHT.
I CAN LINK IN THE UNIVERSAL
TRANSLATOR AND PUT IT ON
THE AUDIO SYSTEM FROM HERE.
CAN YOU DO IT IN TIME?
IT IS IMPOSSIBLE
TO CALCULATE, CAPTAIN.
THERE ARE TOO MANY
UNKNOWN FACTORS.
I CAN ONLY TRY TO ACCOMPLISH
THE LINK. NO MORE.
TWENTY-SIX MINUTES EXACTLY
TO MANTILLES, SIR.
ALL RIGHT, SPOCK. GET AT IT.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5372.1.
THE CLOUD WILL REACH MANTILLES
IN SEVEN MINUTES.
SPOCK HAS BEEN WORKING
ON THE MECHANICS
OF REACHING
THE CLOUD'S THOUGHTS,
BUT I DOUBT
IF THERE'S ANY TIME LEFT.
AND EVEN IF WE
DO ESTABLISH CONTACT,
CAN WE COMMUNICATE WITH IT
AND PERSUADE IT NOT TO KILL?
THE PROCEDURE IS READY, SIR.
THANK YOU, SCOTTY.
READY, CAPTAIN.
Spock:
LISTEN TO ME. LISTEN TO ME.
YOU ARE NOT ALONE HERE.
THERE IS SOMEONE ELSE.
-LISTEN TO ME.
-Cloud: WHAT?
Spock: YOU ARE NOT ALONE HERE,
THERE IS SOMEONE ELSE.
LISTEN TO ME. LISTEN TO ME.
Cloud: WHAT YOU?
Spock: I AM ANOTHER BEING.
Cloud: BEING? WHERE?
Spock: I AM INSIDE YOU.
Cloud: INSIDE? EXPLAIN.
WITHIN ME?
Spock: I AM VERY SMALL.
AND THERE ARE MANY OF ME.
WE ARE IN A SPACESHIP
WITHIN YOU.
Cloud: EXPLAIN.
Spock: A SMALL THING
WHICH HOLDS US ALL.
Cloud: WITHIN ME?
Spock: WITHIN YOU.
Cloud: EXPLAIN.
Spock:
WE CAME TO THINK TO YOU.
YOU CONSUMED US.
YOU THOUGHT WE WERE FOOD.
Cloud: WHY?
WHY YOU THINK TO ME?
Spock: MANY OF US LIVE
ON THE THINGS YOU CONSUME.
Cloud: THINGS I CONSUME?
Spock: YES. MANY OF US ARE ON
THE THING NEAR YOU NOW.
DO NOT CONSUME IT.
Cloud: EXPLAIN.
Spock: THE SPHERICAL THING
AHEAD OF YOU,
THE MATTER YOU
INTEND TO CONSUME,
SENSE IT CLOSELY.
Kirk: HOW NEAR IS MANTILLES,
MR. AREX?
THE CLOUD WILL ENVELOP IT
IN THREE MINUTES,
20 SECONDS, SIR.
Cloud: PERCEIVE MANY SOMETHINGS.
SO SMALL.
Spock: THEY ARE BEINGS.
ALIVE, LIKE YOU.
THEY WILL ALL DIE
IF YOU CONSUME THAT THING.
-Cloud: TOO SMALL.
-Spock: EXPLAIN.
Cloud: I AM SMALL. SOME THINGS
I PERCEIVE TOO SMALL.
NOT ALIVE BEINGS.
Spock: LISTEN TO ME.
I'M GOING TO COME
INTO YOUR THOUGHTS.
AND AT THE SAME TIME,
YOU WILL COME INTO MINE.
Cloud: NECESSARY?
Spock: YES. VERY.
Cloud: PROCEED.
Kirk:
BONES, HE'S THE CLOUD.
ITS THOUGHTS ARE HERE.
DON'T MOVE.
LIEUTENANT,
USE THE LIBRARY COMPUTER.
PUT SOME VIEWS OF THE EARTH
ONTO THAT SCREEN.
YES, SIR.
Kirk: THIS IS THE THING
WE COME FROM.
LIEUTENANT,
THIS IS WHAT I WANT.
AWAITING YOUR ORDER, CAPTAIN.
Kirk:
A FEW SECONDS, SCOTTY.
WE HAVE TO GIVE SPOCK
THAT MUCH.
JIM, IF WE DON'T SELF-DESTRUCT
NOW, ALL THOSE PEOPLE WILL DIE.
THE CLOUD HAS STOPPED, SIR.
Cloud: COMPREHEND.
NOT DESIRE TO
CONSUME OTHER BEINGS.
QUIET.
Spock: THERE ARE MANY THINGS
IN OUR GALAXY
LIKE THE ONE
YOU JUST PERCEIVED.
-Cloud: TRUTH?
-Spock: TRUTH.
YOU DO NOT DESIRE
TO CONSUME OTHER BEINGS.
IT WOULD BE BEST
IF YOU RETURN TO YOUR ORIGIN.
THE WAY YOU CAME.
WILL YOU DO THIS?
Cloud: A LONG JOURNEY...
Spock: WILL YOU RETURN?
Cloud: WILL RETURN
TO ORIGIN PLACE.
LIEUTENANT UHURA,
CONTACT GOVERNOR WESLEY.
TELL HIM TO BRING
HIS SHIPS BACK.
YES, CAPTAIN.
SPOCK, YOU DID IT.
THE CLOUD IS LEAVING.
I BELIEVE SO, CAPTAIN.
THERE IS A "GRID"
AT THE TOP OF THE BRAIN CORE.
IT USES IT TO SENSE.
WE CAN ESCAPE THE CLOUD
THROUGH IT.
MR. SULU, LET'S GET OUT OF HERE,
THROUGH THAT GRID.
Sulu: YES, SIR!
SPOCK, WHAT DID
YOU PERCEIVE?
THE WONDERS
OF THE UNIVERSE, CAPTAIN.
INCREDIBLE,
COMPLETELY INCREDIBLE.